Access to THE WORLD FACTBOOK 1994 provided courtesy of
the libraries of the University of Missouri-St. Louis.
======================================================
National Trade Data Bank
ITEM ID     : CI WOFACT PGM-DESC
DATE        : Oct 28, 1994
 
AGENCY      : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
PROGRAM     : WORLD FACTBOOK
TITLE       : Program Description
 
Source key      : CI 
Program key     : CI WOFACT 
Update sched.   : Annually         
Data type       : TEXT 
End year        : 1994
Date of record  : 19941020
 
Central Intelligence Agency
 
The World Factbook 1994
 
US Government officials should obtain copies of The World Factbook
directly from their own organization or through liaison channels from
the Central Intelligence Agency. This publication is also available in
microfiche, magnetic tape, or diskettes for microcomputers.
 
This publication may be purchased by telephone (VISA or MasterCard) or
mail from:
 
Superintendent of Documents
P.O. Box 371954
Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954
Telephone: (202) 783-3238
 
A subscription to this publication may be purchased from:
 
Document Expediting (DOCEX) Project
Exchange and Gift Division
Library of Congress
Washington, DC 20540
Telephone: (202) 707-9527
 
This publication may be purchased in printed form, photocopy,
microfiche, magnetic tape, or diskettes for microcomputers from:
 
National Technical Information Service
5285 Port Royal Road
Springfield, VA 22161
Telephone: (703) 487-4650
 
This publication may be purchased in photocopy or microform from:
 
Photoduplication Service Library of Congress
Washington, DC 20540-5234
Telephone: (202) 707-5640
 
The World Factbook is produced annually by the Central Intelligence
Agency for the use of US Government officials, and the style, format,
coverage, and content are designed to meet their specific requirements.
Information was provided by the Bureau of the Census, Central
Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Nuclear
Agency, Department of State, Maritime Administration, National Science
Foundation (Polar Information Program), Naval Maritime Intelligence
Center, Office of Territorial and International Affairs, US Board on
Geographic Names, US Coast Guard, and others.
 
Comments and queries are welcome and may be addressed to:
 
Central Intelligence Agency
Attn.: Office of Public and Agency Information
Washington, DC 20505
Telephone: (703) 351-2053
 
Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations
 
A
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Arctic Ocean
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Atlantic Ocean
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
 
B
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Baker Island
Bangladesh
Barbados
Bassas da India
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina
Burma
Burundi
 
C
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China (also see separate Taiwan entry)
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Coral Sea Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
 
D
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
 
E
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europa Island
 
F
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands
 
G
Gabon
Gambia, The
Gaza Strip
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Glorioso Islands
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
 
H
Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City)
Honduras
Hong Kong
Howland Island
Hungary
 
I
Iceland
India
Indian Ocean
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel (also see separate Gaza Strip and West Bank entries)
Italy
 
J
Jamaica
Jan Mayen
Japan
Jarvis Island
Jersey
Johnston Atoll
Jordan (also see separate West Bank entry)
Juan de Nova Island
 
K
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kingman Reef
Kiribati
Korea, North
Korea, South
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
 
L
Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
 
M
Macau
Macedonia entry follows Thailand
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Man, Isle of
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Midway Islands
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
 
N
Namibia
Nauru
Navassa Island
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
 
O
Oman
 
P
Pacific Islands (Palau), Trust Territory of the
Pacific Ocean
Pakistan
Palmyra Atoll
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paracel Islands
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
 
Q
Qatar
 
R
Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
 
S
Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia and Montenegro
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Spain
Spratly Islands
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
 
T
Taiwan entry follows Zimbabwe
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tromelin Island
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
 
U
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
 
V
Vanuatu
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands
 
W
Wake Island
Wallis and Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara
Western Samoa
World
 
Y
Yemen
 
Z
Zaire
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Taiwan
 
Appendixes
A: The United Nations System
B: Abbreviations for International Organizations and Groups
C: International Organizations and Groups
D: Abbreviations for Selected International Environmental Agreements
E: Selected International Environmental Agreements
F: Weights and Measures
G: Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names
 
Reference Maps
The World
North America
Central America and the Caribbean
South America
Europe
Ethnic Groups in Eastern Europe
Middle East
Africa
Asia
Commonwealth of Independent States--European States
Commonwealth of Independent States--Central Asian States
Southeast Asia
Oceania
Arctic Region
Antarctic Region
Standard Time Zones of the World
 
 
There have been some significant changes in this edition. The format and
content of the former entries on the Environment have been changed, and
two new appendixes have been added--Appendix D: Abbreviations for
Selected International Environmental Agreements and Appendix E:
Selected International Environmental Agreements. The name of Macedonia
was changed to The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). The
gross domestic product (GDP) of most of the developing countries is now
presented on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis rather than on an
exchange rate basis. The electronic files used to produce the Factbook
have been restructured into a database. As a result, the formats of some
entries in this edition have been changed. Additional changes will occur
in the 1995 Factbook.
 
Abbreviations: (see Appendix B for abbreviations for international
organizations and groups and Appendix D for abbreviations for
international environmental agreements)
 
avdp. -- avoirdupois
 
c.i.f. -- cost, insurance, and freight
 
CY -- calendar year
 
DWT -- deadweight ton
 
est. -- estimate
 
Ex-Im -- Export-Import Bank of the United States
 
f.o.b. -- free on board
 
FRG -- Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany); used for information
dated before 3 October 1990 or CY91
 
FSU -- former Soviet Union
 
FY -- fiscal year
 
FYROM -- The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
 
GDP -- gross domestic product
 
GDR -- German Democratic Republic (East Germany); used for information
dated before 3 October 1990 or CY91
 
GNP -- gross national product
 
GRT -- gross register ton
 
GWP -- gross world product
 
km -- kilometer
 
kW -- kilowatt
 
kWh -- kilowatt hour
 
m -- meter
 
NA -- not available
 
NEGL -- negligible
 
nm -- nautical mile
 
NZ -- New Zealand
 
ODA -- official development assistance
 
OOF -- other official flows
 
PDRY -- People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or South
Yemen]; used for information dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91
 
sq km -- square kilometer
 
sq mi -- square mile
 
UAE -- United Arab Emirates
 
UK -- United Kingdom
 
US -- United States
 
USSR -- Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union); used for information
dated before 25 December 1991
 
YAR -- Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen]; used for
information dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91
 
Administrative divisions: The numbers, designatory terms, and
first-order administrative divisions are generally those approved by the
US Board on Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been reported but
not yet acted on by BGN are noted.
 
Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines. Land area is the aggregate
of all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines,
excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Comparative
areas are based on total area equivalents. Most entities are compared
with the entire US or one of the 50 states. The smaller entities are
compared with Washington, DC (178 sq km, 69 sq mi) or The Mall in
Washington, DC (0.59 sq km, 0.23 sq mi, 146 acres).
 
Birth rate: The average annual number of births during a year per 1,000
population at midyear; also known as crude birth rate.
 
Dates of information: In general, information available as of 1 January
1994 was used in the preparation of this edition. Population figures are
estimates for 1 July 1994, with population growth rates estimated for
calendar year 1994. Major political events have been updated through May
1994.
 
Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per l,000
population at midyear; also known as crude death rate.
 
Digraphs: The digraph is a two-letter "country code" that precisely
identifies every entity without overlap, duplication, or omission. AF,
for example, is the digraph for Afghanistan. It is a standardized
geopolitical data element promulgated in the  Federal Information
Processing Standards Publication (FIPS) 10-3 by the National Institute
of Standards and Technology (US Department of Commerce) and maintained
by the Office of the Geographer (US Department of State). The digraph is
used to eliminate confusion and incompatibility in the collection,
processing, and dissemination of area-specific data and is particularly
useful for interchanging data between databases.
 
Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations
with 183 nations, including 177 of the 184 UN members (excluded UN
members are Bhutan, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Vietnam, and former
Yugoslavia). In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 6 nations
that are not in the UN - Holy See, Kiribati, Nauru, Switzerland, Tonga,
and Tuvalu.
 
Economic aid: This entry refers to bilateral commitments of official
development assistance (ODA) and other official flows (OOF). ODA is
defined as financial assistance which is concessional in character, has
the main objective to promote economic development and welfare of LDCs.
and contains a grant element of at least 25%. OOF transactions are also
official government assistance, but with a main objective other than
development and with a grant element less than 25%. OOF transactions
include official export credits (such as Ex-Im Bank credits), official
equity and portfolio investment, and debt reorganization by the official
sector that does not meet concessional terms. Aid is considered to have
been committed when agreements are initialed by the parties involved and
constitute a formal declaration of intent.
 
Entities: Some of the nations, dependent areas, areas of special
sovereignty, and governments included in this publication are not
independent, and others are not officially recognized by the US
Government. "Nation" refers to a people politically organized into a
sovereign state with a definite territory. "Dependent area" refers to a
broad category of political entities that are associated in some way
with a nation. Names used for page headings are usually the short-form
names as approved by the US Board on Geographic Names. There are 266
entities in The World Factbook that may be categorized as follows:
 
NATIONS
 
183 -- UN members (excluding both the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; membership status in
the UN is still to be determined)
 
7 -- nations that are not members of the UN--Holy See, Kiribati, Nauru,
Serbia and Montenegro, Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu
 
OTHER
 
1 -- Taiwan
 
DEPENDENT AREAS
 
6 -- Australia--Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
(Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands,
Norfolk Island
 
2 -- Denmark--Faroe Islands, Greenland
 
16 -- France--Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island, French
Guiana, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Glorioso
Islands, Guadeloupe, Juan de Nova Island, Martinique, Mayotte, New
Caledonia, Reunion, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Tromelin Island, Wallis
and Futuna
 
2 -- Netherlands--Aruba, Netherlands Antilles
 
3 -- New Zealand--Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau
 
3 -- Norway--Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard
 
1 -- Portugal--Macau
 
16 -- United Kingdom--Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory,
British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar,
Guernsey, Hong Kong, Jersey, Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands,
Saint Helena, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands
 
15 -- United States--American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island,
Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
(Palau), Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Wake Island
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
6 -- Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West
Bank, Western Sahara
 
OTHER ENTITIES
 
4 -- oceans--Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean
 
1 -- World
 
266 -- total
 
Exchange rate: The value of a nation's monetary unit at a given date or
over a given period of time, as expressed in units of local currency per
US dollar and as determined by international market forces or official
fiat.
 
Gross domestic product (GDP): The value of all final goods and services
produced within a nation in a given year.
 
Gross national product (GNP): The value of all final goods and services
produced within a nation in a given year, plus income earned abroad,
minus income earned by foreigners from domestic production.
 
Gross world product (GWP): The aggregate value of all goods and services
produced worldwide in a given year.
 
GNP/GDP methodology: In the "Economy" section, GNP/GDP dollar estimates
for the great majority of countries are derived from purchasing power
parity (PPP) calculations rather than from conversions at official
currency exchange rates. The PPP method normally involves the use of
international dollar price weights, which are applied to the quantities
of goods and services produced in a given economy. In addition to the
lack of reliable data from the majority of countries, the statistician
faces a major difficulty in specifying, identifying, and allowing for
the quality of goods and services. The division of a GNP/GDP estimate in
local currency by the corresponding PPP estimate in dollars gives the
PPP conversion rate. On average, one thousand dollars will buy the same
market basket of goods in the US as one thousand dollars--converted to
the local currency at the PPP conversion rate--will buy in the other
country.  Whereas PPP estimates for OECD countries are quite reliable,
PPP estimates for developing countries are often rough approximations.
The latter estimates are based on extrapolation of numbers published by
the UN International Comparison Program and by Professors Robert Summers
and Alan Heston of the University of Pennsylvania and their colleagues.
Because currency exchange rates depend on a variety of international and
domestic financial forces that often have little relation to domestic
output, use of these rates is less satisfactory for calculating GNP/GDP
than the PPP method.  In developing countries with weak currencies the
exchange rate estimate of GNP/GDP in dollars is typically one- fourth to
one-half the PPP estimate.  Furthermore, exchange rates may suddenly go
up or down by 10% or more because of market forces or official fiat
whereas real output has remained unchanged.  On 12 January 1994, for
example, the 14 countries of the African Financial Community (whose
currencies are tied to the French franc) devalued their currencies by
50%.  This move, of course, did not cut the real output of these
countries by half.  One additional caution: the proportion of, say,
defense expenditures as a percent of GNP/GDP in local currency accounts
may differ substantially from the proportion when GNP/GDP accounts are
expressed in PPP terms, as, for example, when an observer estimates the
dollar level of Russian or Japanese military expenditures;
 
Growth rate (population): The annual percent change in the population,
resulting from a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the
balance of migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate may be
positive or negative.
 
Illicit drugs: There are five categories of illicit drugs--narcotics,
stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and cannabis. These
categories include many drugs legally produced and prescribed by doctors
as well as those illegally produced and sold outside medical channels.
 
Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana
(pot, Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC,
Marinol), hashish (hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).
 
Coca (Erythroxylon coca) is a bush, and the leaves contain the stimulant
cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with cocoa, which comes from cacao
seeds and is used in making chocolate, cocoa, and cocoa butter.
 
Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.
 
Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety and
include chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal,
phenobarbital), benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone
(Quaalude), glutethimide (Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl,
Valmid).
 
Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental,
emotional, or behavioral change in an individual.
 
Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance that
results in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment in an
individual.
 
Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking, self-awareness,
and emotion. Hallucinogens include LSD (acid, microdot), mescaline and
peyote (mexc, buttons, cactus), amphetamine variants (PMA, STP, DOB),
phencyclidine (PCP, angel dust, hog), phencyclidine analogues (PCE,
PCPy, TCP), and others (psilocybin, psilocyn).
 
Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).
 
Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.
 
Mandrax is a synthetic chemical depressant, the same as, or similar to
Quaalude.
 
Marijuana is the dried leaves of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).
 
Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer to
opium, opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural narcotics
include opium (paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol),
codeine (Tylenol with codeine, Empirin with codeine, Robitussan AC), and
thebaine. Semisynthetic narcotics include heroin (horse, smack), and
hydromorphone (Dilaudid). Synthetic narcotics include meperidine or
Pethidine (Demerol, Mepergan), methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), and
others (Darvon, Lomotil).
 
Opium is the milky exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod of the opium
poppy.
 
Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for many natural and
semisynthetic narcotics.
 
Poppy straw concentrate is the alkaloid derived from the mature dried
opium poppy.
 
Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of catha edulis
that is chewed or drunk as tea.
 
Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy and
activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines
(Desoxyn, Dexedrine), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate
(Ritalin), and others (Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).
 
Infant mortality rate: The number of deaths to infants under one year
old in a given year per l,000 live births occurring in the same year.
 
International disputes: This category includes a wide variety of
situations that range from traditional bilateral boundary disputes to
unilateral claims of one sort or another. Information regarding disputes
over international boundaries and maritime boundaries has been reviewed
by the Department of State. References to other situations involving
borders or frontiers may also be included, such as resource disputes,
geopolitical questions, or irredentist issues. However, inclusion does
not necessarily constitute official acceptance or recognition by the US
Government.
 
Irrigated land: The figure refers to the land area that is artificially
supplied with water.
 
Land use: Human use of the land surface is categorized as arable
land--land cultivated for crops that are replanted after each harvest
(wheat, maize, rice); permanent crops--land cultivated for crops that
are not replanted after each harvest (citrus, coffee, rubber);  meadows
and pastures--land permanently used for herbaceous forage crops; forest
and woodland--under dense or open stands of trees; and other--any land
type not specifically mentioned above (urban areas, roads, desert).
 
Leaders: The chief of state is the titular leader of the country who
represents the state at official and ceremonial functions but is not
involved with the day- to-day activities of the government. The head of
government is the administrative leader who manages the day-to-day
activities of the government. In the UK, the monarch is the chief of
state, and the Prime Minister is the head of government. In the US, the
President is both the chief of state and the head of government.
 
Life expectancy at birth: The average number of years to be lived by a
group of people all born in the same year, if mortality at each age
remains constant in the future.
 
Literacy: There are no universal definitions and standards of literacy.
Unless otherwise noted, all rates are based on the most common
definition--the ability to read and write at a specified age. Detailing
the standards that individual countries use to assess the ability to
read and write is beyond the scope of this publication.
 
Maritime claims: The proximity of neighboring states may prevent some
national claims from being extended the full distance.
 
Merchant marine: All ships engaged in the carriage of goods. All
commercial vessels (as opposed to all nonmilitary ships), which excludes
tugs, fishing vessels, offshore oil rigs, etc.; also, a grouping of
merchant ships by nationality or register.
 
Captive register--A register of ships maintained by a territory,
possession, or colony primarily or exclusively for the use of ships
owned in the parent country; also referred to as an offshore register,
the offshore equivalent of an internal register. Ships on a captive
register will fly the same flag as the parent country, or a local
variant of it, but will be subject to the maritime laws and taxation
rules of the offshore territory. Although the nature of a captive
register makes it especially desirable for ships owned in the parent
country, just as in the internal register, the ships may also be owned
abroad. The captive register then acts as a flag of convenience
register, except that it is not the register of an independent state.
 
Flag of convenience register--A national register offering registration
to a merchant ship not owned in the flag state. The major flags of
convenience (FOC) attract ships to their register by virtue of low fees,
low or nonexistent taxation of profits, and liberal manning
requirements. True FOC registers are characterized by having relatively
few of the ships registered actually owned in the flag state. Thus,
while virtually any flag can be used for ships under a given set of
circumstances, an FOC register is one where the majority of the merchant
fleet is owned abroad. It is also referred to as an open register.
 
Flag state--The nation in which a ship is registered and which holds
legal jurisdiction over operation of the ship, whether at home or
abroad. Differences in flag state maritime legislation determine how a
ship is manned and taxed and whether a foreign-owned ship may be placed
on the register.
 
Internal register--A register of ships maintained as a subset of a
national register. Ships on the internal register fly the national flag
and have that nationality but are subject to a separate set of maritime
rules from those on the main national register. These differences
usually include lower taxation of profits, manning by foreign nationals,
and, usually, ownership outside the flag state (when it functions as an
FOC register). The Norwegian International Ship Register and Danish
International Ship Register are the most notable examples of an internal
register. Both have been instrumental in stemming flight from the
national flag to flags of convenience and in attracting foreign owned
ships to the Norwegian and Danish flags.
 
Merchant ship--A vessel that carries goods against payment of freight;
commonly used to denote any nonmilitary ship but accurately restricted
to commercial vessels only.
 
Register--The record of a ship's ownership and nationality as listed
with the maritime authorities of a country; also, the compendium of such
individual ships' registrations. Registration of a ship provides it with
a nationality and makes it subject to the laws of the country in which
registered (the flag state) regardless of the nationality of the ship's
ultimate owner.
 
Money figures: All money figures are expressed in contemporaneous US
dollars unless otherwise indicated.
 
National product: The total output of goods and services in a country in
a given year. See Gross domestic product (GDP), Gross national product
(GNP), and GNP/GDP methodology.
 
Net migration rate: The balance between the number of persons entering
and leaving a country during the year per 1,000 persons (based on
midyear population). An excess of persons entering the country is
referred to as net immigration (3.56 migrants/1,000 population); an
excess of persons leaving the country as net emigration (-9.26
migrants/1,000 population).
 
Population: Figures are estimates from the Bureau of the Census based on
statistics from population censuses, vital statistics registration
systems, or sample surveys pertaining to the recent past, and on
assumptions about future trends. Starting with the 1993 Factbook
demographic estimates for some countries (mostly African) have taken
into account the effects of the growing incidence of AIDS infections; in
1993 these countries were Burkina, Burundi, Central African Republic,
Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Haiti, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Thailand, and Brazil.
 
Total fertility rate: The average number of children that would be born
per woman if all women lived to the end of their childbearing years and
bore children according to a given fertility rate at each age.
 
Years: All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless
indicated as fiscal year (FY).
 
Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from
material in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence
Community estimates. The Handbook of International Economic Statistics,
published annually in September by the Central Intelligence Agency,
contains detailed economic information for the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries, Eastern Europe, the newly
independent republics of the former nations of Yugoslavia and the Soviet
Union, and selected other countries. The Handbook can be obtained
wherever The World Factbook is available.
 
 
===========================================================================
This section of THE WORLD FACTBOOK 1994 produced by the United States
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was derived from the US Dept. of Commerce
Economics and Statistics Division's NATIONAL TRADE DATA BANK (NTDB) CD-ROM,
November, 1994, SuDoc No. C 1.88:994/11/v.1-2 / Presented by Raleigh Muns,
(srcmuns@umslvma.umsl.edu) University of Missouri-St. Louis Libraries.
